Chapter 2, Verse 47
Text: karmany-evadhikaras te ma phaleshu kadachana ma karma-phala-hetur bhur ma te sango 'stvakarmani
Translation: You have a right to perform your prescribed duty, but you are not entitled to the fruits of action. Never consider yourself the cause of the results of your activities, and never be attached to not doing your duty.
Meaning: Focus purely on the work you need to do (your exams, your job, your responsibilities) without constantly worrying about the outcome or the reward. Anxiety comes from obsessing over the results, which are out of your control.

Chapter 2, Verse 48
Text: yoga-sthah kuru karmani sangam tyaktva dhananjaya siddhy-asiddhyoh samo bhutva samatvam yoga ucyate
Translation: Perform your duty equipoised, O Arjuna, abandoning all attachment to success or failure. Such equanimity is called yoga.
Meaning: True peace of mind comes from maintaining your balance whether you succeed or fail. Do your best, but do not let a failure destroy your self-worth, and do not let success make you arrogant.

Chapter 6, Verse 5
Text: uddhared atmanatmanam natmanam avasadayet atmaiva hy atmano bandhur atmaiva ripur atmanah
Translation: One must deliver himself with the help of his mind, and not degrade himself. The mind is the friend of the conditioned soul, and his enemy as well.
Meaning: You are your own best friend and your own worst enemy. If you control your mind and focus on positive action, it will elevate you. If you let your mind wander into negativity and fear, it will pull you down.

Chapter 6, Verse 6
Text: bandhur atmatmanas tasya yenatmaivatmana jitah anatmanas tu satrutve vartetatmaiva satru-vat
Translation: For him who has conquered the mind, the mind is the best of friends; but for one who has failed to do so, his mind will remain the greatest enemy.
Meaning: Self-discipline is the key to happiness. When you master your thoughts and direct them properly, your mind works for you. When you lack discipline, your own thoughts will cause you suffering.

Chapter 18, Verse 48
Text: saha-jam karma kaunteya sa-dosham api na tyajet sarvarambha hi doshena dhumenagnir ivavritah
Translation: Every endeavor is covered by some fault, just as fire is covered by smoke. Therefore one should not give up the work born of his nature, O son of Kunti, even if such work is full of fault.
Meaning: No project, job, or task is perfect. There will always be difficulties, flaws, and stress involved. Do not run away from your responsibilities just because they are difficult or imperfect.